server/README.md, before:

# AssetTrackr Portfolio Manager

AssetTrackr is a portfolio manager that allows users to manage their asset portfolios. The current MVP version provides basic functionality for user authentication, profile creation, and adding assets to a user's portfolio.

## Overview

The primary features of AssetTrackr include:

- User signup and login
- Managing user profiles
- Adding assets to a user's portfolio
- Update portfolio holdings with buy/sell transactions
- Viewing portfolio holdings

The application is currently in active development, with a focus on backend functionality for portfolio management of asset transactions.

Future enhancements will include performance tracking of individual holdings and overall portfolio, providing users with insights into their investment performance over time.

## Getting Started

Follow these steps to set up the project locally:

1. Clone the repository
2. Run `npm install` in the root directory
3. Navigate to the server directory with `cd server`
4. add username and password to .env.example & remove '.example' from the file name
5. Create Postgres database: `AssetTrackr`
6. Start the server with `npm start`

## API Usage

You can interact with the API using tools like Insomnia or Postman. Here are some example requests:

- Signup: `POST http://localhost:3000/user` with JSON body:
```json
  {
    "username": "VeryFirstUser",
    "email": "firstuser@gmail.com",
    "password": "Password123"
  }
```

- Login: `POST http://localhost:3000/user/login` with JSON body:
```json
  {
    "usernameOrEmail": "VeryFirstUser",
    "password": "Password123"
  }
```

- User Profile: `GET http://localhost:3000/user/user/1`

- Update User: `PUT http://localhost:3000/user/user/2` with JSON body:
```json
  {
    "username": "VeryFirstUser(UPDATED)",
    "email": "Updatedfirstuser@gmail.com"
  }
```

- Delete User: `DELETE http://localhost:3000/user/user/1`

- Create New User Asset if does not exist, same endpoint is used for buy and sell transactions (buys add to quantity, to sell enter a negative number): `POST http://localhost:3000/user/1/assets` with JSON body:
```json
  {
    "userId": 1,
    "assetId": 1,
    "quantity": 300,
    "name": "Some Asset Name",
    "ticker": "SAN",
    "current_price": 100
  }
```

- Get All User Assets: `GET http://localhost:3000/user/1/assets`


- Delete User Asset: `DELETE http://localhost:3000/user/1/assets/1`

# Testing


`npm run test`

Commit message:

Updated testing instructions and .env.example for testing

server/README.md, after:

# AssetTrackr Portfolio Manager

AssetTrackr is a portfolio manager that allows users to manage their asset portfolios. The current MVP version provides basic functionality for user authentication, profile creation, and adding assets to a user's portfolio.

## Overview

The primary features of AssetTrackr include:

- User signup and login
- Managing user profiles
- Adding assets to a user's portfolio
- Update portfolio holdings with buy/sell transactions
- Viewing portfolio holdings

The application is currently in active development, with a focus on backend functionality for portfolio management of asset transactions.

Future enhancements will include performance tracking of individual holdings and overall portfolio, providing users with insights into their investment performance over time.

## Getting Started

Follow these steps to set up the project locally:

1. Clone the repository
2. Run `npm install` in the root directory
3. Navigate to the server directory with `cd server`
4. add username and password to .env.example & remove '.example' from the file name
5. Create Postgres database: `AssetTrackr`
6. Start the server with `npm start`

## API Usage

You can interact with the API using tools like Insomnia or Postman. Here are some example requests:

- Signup: `POST http://localhost:3000/user` with JSON body:
```json
  {
    "username": "VeryFirstUser",
    "email": "firstuser@gmail.com",
    "password": "Password123"
  }
```

- Login: `POST http://localhost:3000/user/login` with JSON body:
```json
  {
    "usernameOrEmail": "VeryFirstUser",
    "password": "Password123"
  }
```

- User Profile: `GET http://localhost:3000/user/user/1`

- Update User: `PUT http://localhost:3000/user/user/2` with JSON body:
```json
  {
    "username": "VeryFirstUser(UPDATED)",
    "email": "Updatedfirstuser@gmail.com"
  }
```

- Delete User: `DELETE http://localhost:3000/user/user/1`

- Create New User Asset if does not exist, same endpoint is used for buy and sell transactions (buys add to quantity, to sell enter a negative number): `POST http://localhost:3000/user/1/assets` with JSON body:
```json
  {
    "userId": 1,
    "assetId": 1,
    "quantity": 300,
    "name": "Some Asset Name",
    "ticker": "SAN",
    "current_price": 100
  }
```

- Get All User Assets: `GET http://localhost:3000/user/1/assets`


- Delete User Asset: `DELETE http://localhost:3000/user/1/assets/1`

# Testing

You will need to create a database for testing named 'test_db'

`npm run test` from server directory
